---------------------------------
The first obstacle is to handle the receive & transmit rings/queues.
The description of them is quite straightforward in the manual: 
- hardware uses all inside [head, tail) and software uses all the rest.
- as hardware finishes using (starting from the head) descriptors, it advances
  the head until head = tail.
- as software finishes preparing (starting from the tail) descriptors for the
  hardware, it advances the tail until tail = head-1.

There's no problem with the description; it is true and simple. But what is not
simple, for software (driver developers), is that there are more states than
the two, used by hardware, and used by software --- as descriptors are used by
software, we need more states to manage them. Note that the situation is dual
for hardware, but we only have to take one side of the responsibility.

For the reception of packets, we need to allocate buffers for them.
Since we need to allocate the maximum size of buffers, it would be desirable to
reuse them. However, we have to keep the memory for the upper network stack to
do things to the packet. So we are presented with two choices: either stall
until the upper stack has finished using one, which would be a disaster, or
allocate and copy the memory for the upper stack. In fact, the lab suggests
allocating a new buffer for the descriptor and pass the memory directly to the
upper stack, which does not involve a copy. Moreover, the manual indicates
that, if we want to use in-memory check of descriptors (whose significance will
be discussed later), we will have to reset the status field of the descriptor.

For the transmission of packets, we need to allocate buffers for ourselves to
contain the data. For this lab, sys_send() already does that for us.
Strictly speaking, since all allocation here are of fixed size (via kalloc()),
we could reuse the buffer. But that would require modifying sys_send(), and
more importantly, blur the boundary between sys_send() and our driver. And
anyway, in real world cases where we do allocations of exactly len, we will
have to free the previous buffer and use a new one. And since we control the
data we send, we need to fill in the other fields of the descriptor to contain
metadata about the packet.

To conclude, in both rx & tx, we will have to handle the
allocation/deallocation of the buffer and a few other things, before we can
make a descriptor available to the hardware again. 

The situation is complicated further by the fact that the manual states
``Reading the descriptor head to determine which buffers are finished is not
reliable.'' (Section 13.4.28 & 13.4.39). At first, it is confusing; if the head
is not reliable, then how can we use it to determine which descriptors we can
reuse, especially since the manual also stated that: ``Descriptors passed to
hardware should not be manipulated by software until the head pointer has
advanced past them.'' (Section 3.4). After a series of contemplation, I arrived
at a likely explanation, inspired by this Note: 
``
The head pointer points to the next descriptor that is written back. At the
completion of the descriptor write-back operation, this pointer is incremented
by the number of descriptors written back. HARDWARE OWNS ALL DESCRIPTORS
BETWEEN [HEAD AND TAIL]. Any descriptor not in this range is owned by software.
'' (Section 3.2.6).
The likely explanation is, ``unreliable'' stands for the fact that head may be
slower than descriptors are made available to software, since descriptors are
written in batch, and the hardware doesn't want to write to the bus for every
descriptor.

Thus, we have an optimization choice: instead of just using all descriptors
from tail to head-1, we can also check the write-back status of descriptors and
use past head. Actually, it's what's suggested for us to do in e1000_transmit()
by the lab; we do that instead of check if head == tail.

The lab actually has simplified things for transmition --- instead of letting
us dealing with multiple packets at a time, we only need to deal with one
packet at a time. Still, for reception we have to deal with multiple ones.

Here I give a state machine of the transmission and reception cycles:

transmission:
-------------
cleared (C): buf is freed; status not set
->
ready for hardware (R): put a packet inside buf and setup status but is not
	within [head, tail)
	This should not happen for transmittion, since e1000_transmit() does one 
	packet at a time. I just put it here for consistency with reception.
->
used by hardware (U): when the above descriptor is inside [head, tail)
-> 
waiting to be cleared (W): when the above descriptor has DD set. Buf not freed
	and status not cleared yet.
-> 
back to cleared

reception: (in init, every buf is allocated, so there's no unallocated state)
-------------
cleared (C): buf is not allocated. This can only happen before init for
	reception. I just put it here for consistency with transmission.
->
ready for hardware (R): buf allocated and status cleared, but is not within
	[head, tail). After init, only count-1 is in this state.
->
used by hardware (U): the above descriptor put into [head, tail).
	After init, all within [0, count-1) are in this state.
->
waiting to be cleared (W): when the above descriptor has DD set. Buf not copied
	out and status not cleared yet.
->
back to ready for hardware

Why after init, count-1 has to be R, not U? Because the ring can contain at
most count-1 descriptors for hardware; head=tail is treated as an empty ring.

See also the graph in ./desc_rings.svg. There I assume head is perfectly
syncronized with DD.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART 2
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
As always, the lack of data structures in the kernel presents a problem for us
as to how to record the UDP bindings.  If we had something like a std::map to
map ports to receive buffers, then it would be so much easier.

On second thought, it would seem that directly having an array of 
port -> pointer to receive buffers would not be so hard. It would take 
8 * 65536 = 2^19 bytes = 512 KiB.
